Based on the principles of Scrum and the Agile Manifesto, Scrum.org provides comprehensive training, assessments and certifications to improve the profession of software delivery. Throughout the world, our solutions and community of Professional Scrum Trainers empower people and organizations to achieve agility through Scrum.  Ken Schwaber, the co-creator of Scrum, founded Scrum.org in 2009 as a global organization, dedicating himself to improving the profession of software delivery by reducing the gaps so the work and work products are dependable.

"Why did you found Scrum.org?" I’ve been asked these questions countless times since I created Scrum.org last fall. This is the story of my journey with Scrum, starting with its creation, moving through the establishment and evolution and ending with my work with Scrum.org. This journey has been shaped by two opposing forces: the desire to do the right thing, and the desire to make money. I formed Scrum.org to refocus my efforts on doing the right thing.

Creating the “Scrum Developer” program. One of the biggest challenges of using Scrum has always been the steep learning curve for the developers on the Scrum team. But because Scrum is a management practice, most of the people who taught Scrum were not current developers and were ill-qualified to teach engineering practices like test-driven development or emerging architecture. I wanted to create a specific course to address Scrum developers, so I reached out to three organizations skilled in teaching others how roll up their sleeves and build software using Scrum: Accentient, Conchango, and Microsoft. We developed a course for Scrum developers targeting the .NET technology stack. Working with Microsoft gave us access to a base of solid trainers and coaches: Microsoft MVPs and Inner Circle Partners. By starting with Microsoft we were also able to begin with a fully integrated technology stack. Once we had launched this course in spring 2010 alongside Visual Studio 2010, we would work with other partners to develop similar courses targeting other technology stacks.
Formalizing the Scrum body of knowledge and measuring understanding thereof. As Scrum spread, so did confusion and misunderstanding of 
Scrum. Jeff Sutherland and I compiled the Scrum body of knowledge (a.k.a. the Scrum Guide) from previous works.

Improving the quality and consistency of the training. I had discovered that some of the “flaccid Scrum” phenomenon was due to inconsistent training. They had different ideas about Scrum fundamentals: They all defined “done” differently, and many couldn’t answer questions about team and development dynamics during the Sprint. I wanted to improve and stabilize the training materials they were using and the training they were delivering and also create more transparency into the results that they were producing. I launched a program to upgrade and improve the consistency of their courseware, to have course attendees formally evaluate their trainers, and to require a formal assessment prior to certification to help students measure their level of understanding.
